So what we already did over the last lectures is we created folders and files to add routeing to our
reviewer from next approach here.
Now thus far we always entered your L manually.
Now time to change this and time to add some links.
So let's go to the index thought you fall on the pages folder and let's remove all the content in there
and let's instead add a link that leads us to the user's page.
And of course one thing we can do is we can use a normal anchor text and navigate to slash users here
and say users like this.
If I do this and does recompiles and I go back to just localhost free thousand then I see slash users.
I clicked this.
I'm taking the user's view but one important thing happens if I click this actually a brand new page
will be loaded.
So this is now loaded by sending a new request to the server and rendering back a new page.
Sometimes you want this but sometimes you want to stick to this new single page application that still
runs because remember what I said in the first module.
Even with Naxa where we pre-rendered pages on the server once the first page is pre-rendered we still
have a single page application because we want to stay in that world of fast and instant responses.
The main difference to a normal single page application simply is that all starting pages for different
you or else can be pre-rendered entirely on the server instead of in the client.
So right now we're always getting a new page.
Let's say we don't want that we want to stay in that single page application world in a normal of us.
We would now use router link.
This is a component we can use to create a linked that behind the scenes use D-NC or tech but where
the view router catches all clicks on the link and prevents the default of sending a request.
In fact the equivalent is next link.
Just like that.
Next link also creates the anger text and catches any place to ensure that no request is sent.
So here we can now add users and now to next link.
We need to add a property the to property and point to slash users for example.
Now by doing this if we saved that file and we go back to the localhost 3000 page and reloaded once
we got that link and by clicking on it we get the same behavior as before but technically something
else is happening.
No new request is said and you can actually kind of see that if you watch closely at the top of the
screen as your screen may be where you see it a bit better you get the tiny loading indicator there
that dream flash.
This is coming from Maxton I will show you how to modify it later in the course when we dive into the
Nax configuration but it proves that actually the transition here is all happening in the browser without
a request being sent.
And this is how we can navigate around by clicking links.
Sometimes you also want to navigate around programmatically like let's say here in the user's page we
want to go to a user's page here.
Now let's say to get there we'll add a div and there.
First of all we had an input in that input here.
I want to be able to enter a user ID and then I want to add a button that takes me to that was ready.
So I say load user here.
Now since we're in a normal do component we can use normal component features.
We add a script section where we export a default object and then here let's first of all add a data
property which in components should be a function where you return an object and this is all normal
view code not related to next.
And then here let's add a variable or a property where we can store the user input.
Maybe name User ID and it's an empty string initially and then we can bind dead input here with the
model again just like in a normal view app we bind it to user ID to store whatever the user enters here
in this user id property and then I'll add a method which I want to trigger when we click this button
I'll name that onload user and then here I now want to go to that user page for the ID.
The user enters here in that input So there to the button I'll add a click listener with at click.
And then I want to execute on load user here without parentheses.
I'll just pass a pointer to that method down there and in that Meffert I now want to navigate programmatically.
This can be done by accessing this router.
Push.
Now again we're using the default view router here which simply is injected into all our view components.
So this is normal view code not coming from next.
The only thing coming from next year is that the router exists because next spins it up behind the scenes
and passes are Page driven translate that configuration to it.
So in Porsche we can now again simply pass a string to go to slash users slash and then the IDs so this
user id and this should now load this route here 40 UAD we entered that see the connection by saving
this and going back here's the input field and the button.
Now let's enter one here and click the button and we see it id one.
And if I go back and I enter something here and click the button we see with ID something and you are
of course reflects this.
So this is now how you can navigate both in code with a link or programmatically and how you interact
with all these default view features and route conflict given to you by Nax Yes.